there is some movement uh on this when I
say this I mean the release of
Palestinian prisoners these are the
latest pictures that we're getting and
there are pictures that are showing us
the transfer of female Palestinian
prisoners from Damon prison this is a
prison near hia to the ofer detention
center near rala uh just a little while
ago this all of this in preparation for
their release as part of this exchange
deal remember 39 Palestinians to be
released today some of those 39 it
appears are in those trucks that you're
seeing as they're being transferred from
um from Damon prison to ofer detention
center so n Ibraham joins us now from
ofer prison south of rala in the
occupied West Bank nid you may not have
seen them but the pictures we just got
and we just showed our viewers several
white Vans leaving Damon prison headed
to where you are uh there must be huge
anticipation across the West Bank really
tell us about what you're seeing on your
end I don't know if there are families
gathered what do you
know let me tell you about the scene
here we've seen those videos you're
referring to surl of the buses being uh
uh moved uh having prisoners being moved
from adamon prison to inside here we've
also have an important answer to one of
the two questions since the morning
families of prisoners have been asking
two questions who's on the list and when
they're going to be released now we have
the names of 39 Palestinian prisoners
who are expected to be released from AER
prison that is just behind me now we've
been talking to a family of one of the
Prisoners the father his name is nafz
his son raan has been in prison for the
past eight years he says he's been
denied from entering uh the prison to
visit her but but he received the news
as we were with him when he saw his
names his daughter's name on the list he
says that this is a joyous day for him
but still he was saying that it's hard
to celebrate given the amount of killing
the scenes that we've been seeing uh for
the past month and more coming from the
besieged Gaza Strip under continuous
bombardment now let me tell you about
the people who are here they're waiting
and they're looking at those buses we
just have been talking about surl and
they were looking to see whether there
are three buses who were lined up before
theer military prison they were guessing
are these the female prisoners who have
been just uh gotten out from the Deon
prison have they made it here you know
this area is very symbolic of the
occupation when it comes to Palestinians
because not only does it have theer
military prison but it also has theer
military Court in which we see
Palestinians including miners being
trialed and being uh uh taken to
military Courts for uh uh what Israel
says are crimes that they've committed
so now we're talking about this scene
this location over here being one of the
most important ones that Palestinians
are looking at for the potential release
happening here we've been speaking to
also families of those prisoners whose
names have appeared on the list from
Bethlehem they're from Jericho Janine
all across the occupied West Bank and
they've been telling us that since
they've seen the names of their family
members on the list they've made it here
but let's not forget we're talking about
39 names and when we compare that to the
numbers and the thousands of
Palestinians who are currently in
Israeli prisons we're talking about a
fraction still it is indeed a happy day
for those Palestinian families who are
going to have their sons and daughters
back home with them
now if day to day day after day these uh
exchanges of captives versus prisoners
happen and if this continues for the
whole four days you should see 150
Palestinian prisoners released I don't
know if this will all be happening at
oer where you are but for right now um
what is your sense of the timing of the
release am I correct in assuming that
this will only happen once we have
knowledge of the Hamas captives being
released
indeed this is what Palestinians are
expecting and they also believe that
Israel would continue this waiting game
as much as they can to give Palestinians
kind of like a difficult time you know
we have families here who are saying you
know although we've seen the news that
they are expected to be released here
we're seeing buses being moved here but
we're not sure because in the past we've
seen the Israeli forces changed the
location of the releases of Palestinian
prisoners several times there has been
one incident of a Palestinian prisoner a
hunger Striker who has said to be
released in one place all the
journalists everyone and the family
members went there but he has been
released from another place he didn't
have a phone on him he had to call his
family using one of the people who were
passing by in the occupied Westbank to
call his family this just gives you an
idea of how difficult the waiting game
is how everything is uncertain and even
those families who were telling us you
know yes we've seen the list we hope
that they're coming but let's not get
ahead of ourselves we don't know what
might happen you know so th this is part
and parcel of what Palestinians go
through when they talk about their
detained Palestinians that they can't
visit them you know since October 7th
the visitations have not been allowed
but for some families for security
reasons that Israel says they don't even
get to visit their family members at all
so this gives you a lot of uh uh kind of
tension anticipation I I hope that I am
conveying the picture that many and the
feelings that many of Palestinian
families are going through right now no
look you absolutely are and the issue of
Palestinian prisoners this is why we
spend you know time talking about this
the issue of Palestinian prisoners is
absolutely Central to the Palestinian uh
nationalist movement and nationalist
cause nid Ibrahim reporting there from
ofer in the occupied West Bank